
03/24/26

Making the raylib game in C#. Raylib_cs.
Using vector2 rather than int x and y to make it easier to move the player and other objects around.

Also discovered that I can make an object to call another object in the same class. 
This'll likely be useful for later on. Example: Instantiaing a game object in static void main
and then calling the player object from the game object to move it around and do other things.
Essentially, it is inheritance without actually forcing a class to inherit from another class. It is more of a composition approach, which is what I prefer.

Now imagine making a hybrid approach where I have a base class called GameObject and then have the player class inherit from that base class.
Back and forth between composition and inheritance to design an ECS for the game.

When it comes to shared logic and contracts within the same class, I can use interfaces.
For example. I can make an interface called IPlayer and then have the player class implement that interface
or IDamageable and have the player class implement that interface as well. The equivalent to using header files in C++.

Take note:
Interfaces are contracts that a class must follow. They define a set of methods and properties that a class must implement, but they do not provide any implementation themselves. 
This allows for a lot of flexibility in how classes can be designed and structured, while still ensuring that they adhere to certain standards and expectations.
Shared logic and contracts within the same class can be achieved through the use of interfaces, which allow for a clear separation of concerns and promote code reusability.

3/27/26:

Implement collisions for the player to prevent the circle from leaving the screen. Use gravity to make the player fall down and jump. Implement a simple ground for the player to stand on.
**Fixed the vector2 issue where the player wouldn't move because I forgot to update the position of the player after applying movement.**

@2:01pm: Fixed player movement issue. Adding gravity and collisions to the player later. Need to adjust speed.

3/28/26:

Implemented ICollidable interface for the player and ground objects as well as enemies later on . This allows for a more flexible and modular design, as I can easily add new collidable objects to the game without having to modify existing code.

Also added in a serializer to save and load the game state. Also to be able to load ldtk files. From there, I can load
level editors into raylib and make it playable. This will allow for a lot of flexibility in designing 
levels and creating new content for the game without having to hardcode everything in.

**Player is now a struct rather than a class. This is because the player is a simple data structure that doesn't require the overhead of a class.

The ICollidable interface contains a hitbox property, which is a rectangle that defines the area of the object that can collide with other objects.
As well as a radius property for circular objects. Radius is a float while the hitbox is a vector2.

Methods will be added to check collisions between objects. 

3/29/26:

Implemented basic gravity for the player. Built up the skeleton for the code and did some refactoring.
Serializer is now an ISerializable interface that can be implemented by any class that needs to be serialized.
This allows for a more flexible and modular design, as I can easily add new serializable classes to the game without having to modify existing code.

Collisions need to be worked on. I need to implement a way to check for collisions between the player and the ground, as well as between the player and enemies later on. 
This will likely involve checking the hitbox of the player against the hitbox of other objects in the game.
Luckily, I've already setup the ICollidable interface.

So far, I've managed to design a basic collision system using the ICollidable interface. My idea was to make an ICollidable object
have a hitbox property, which is a rectangle that defines the area of the object that can collide with other objects.

From there, I would need it to grab onto the position of the object and check for collisions with other objects in the game. 
This would involve checking the hitbox of the player against the hitbox of other objects in the game, such as the ground and enemies.

**Serializer is now a true ISerializable interface that can be implemented by any class that needs to be serialized.
This allows for a more flexible and modular design, as I can easily add new serializable classes to the game without having to modify existing code.**

**Partial formatting of the code. Progress is being made, but there is still a lot of work to be done.

3/30/26:

Thanks to the ICollidable interface, I was able to design the skeleton for the collision system.
I can now make modifications to the ICollidable object to check for collisions. 

Need to add physics to the player and draw rectangles nearby for the player to land on.
This will allow me to test the collsions and make sure they are working properly.

I'm planning to potentially convert ICollidable and ISerializable into generic interfaces for increased flexibility.

There is also potential for interfaces to inherit each other into a single interface for even more flexibility.
However, operations may become more complex and difficult to manage, so I need to be cautious.

Async ISerializable interface might be most useful for parsing through very large JSON files when needed.

Interfaces:

ICollidable <t> //Generic interface for collidable objects, where t is the type of the hitbox (e.g. Rectangle, Circle, etc.)
ISerializable <t> //Generic interface for serializable objects, where t is the type of the data to be serialized (e.g. JSON, XML, etc.)

IDamageable //Interface for objects that can take damage, with methods for taking damage and checking health.


Events:

OnCollisionEnter //Event triggered when a collision occurs between two collidable objects.
OnCollisionExit //Event triggered when a collision ends between two collidable objects.
OnDamageTaken //Event triggered when an object takes damage, with parameters for the amount of damage taken and the source of the damage.
OnHealthChanged //Event triggered when an object's health changes, with parameters for the new health value and the source of the change.
OnDeath //Event triggered when an object's health reaches zero, with parameters for the source of the death and any relevant information (e.g. score, loot drops, etc.)
OnLevelComplete //Event triggered when a level is completed, with parameters for the level number and any relevant information (e.g. score, time taken, etc.)
